Q.Features of kernel?

- A core feature of any operating system, the kernel manages communication between hardware and software.
  The kernel is responsible for managing memory, and I/O to memory, cache, the hard drive, and other devices.
  It also handles device signals, task scheduling, and other essential duties.

Q. difference between linux and windows operating system?

	Linux                                          	                                   Windows
*	Linux is a open source operating system.	                       While windows are the not the open source operating system.
*	Linux is free of cost.	                                              While it is costly.
*	It’s file name case-sensitive.	                               While it’s file name is case-insensitive.
*	In linux, monolithic kernel is used.	                               While in this, micro kernel is used.
*	Linux is more efficient in comparison of windows.	                While windows are less efficient.
*	There is forward slash is used for Separating the directories.	While there is back slash is used for Separating the directories.
*	Linux provides more security than windows.	                        While it provides less security than linux.

 Q. What do you mean by opensource?
    Open source software is code that is designed to be publicly accessible—anyone can see, modify.

Q. Explain the output of "ls -l" command
    It give the list of the following directory.
    
Q.  what are monolithic and microservices?
    - Monolithic architecture is built as one large system and is usually one code-baseIt has shared database
    - Microservices architecture is built as small independent module based on business functionality
      Each project and module has their own database
      
Q.difference between agile and DevOps? 
  Agile	,DevOps - Agile refers to an iterative approach which focuses on collaboration, customer feedback, and small, rapid releases.	
  DevOps is considered a practice of bringing development and operations teams together.
  Purpose  =	Agile helps to manage complex projects.	DevOps central concept is to manage end-to-end engineering processes.
  Task =	Agile process focusses on constant changes.	DevOps focuses on constant testing and delivery.

 Q. How to create multipple files with single command?
    touch file1 file2 file3
 
 Q.  Where are unit files located?
     /usr/lib/systemd
 
 Q. What are an absolute path and relative path?
    Absolute path is exact path where we want to go and relative path is present path
 
 Q. What are hard links?
    Hard link are just like copy of that file with same Inodes .
 
 Q. After ll command what is the arrow indicates to and what it is pointing to?
    It show the complete detail of files present in that directory .
    
 Q. In vim how can we search inside the file?
    /search 

 Q.How to delete files in vim editor?
    Shift+d and then y

 Q. Difference between wq and x? 
     wq = save and exit 
     x = exit without save

 Q.what are hidden files in linux
    files used in order to execute some scripts or to store configuration about some services on your host.
    
 Q. systemd vs initd?
    Initd -->The init daemon is the first process executed by the Linux Kernel and its process ID (PID) is always 1. Its purpose is to initialize, manage and 
    track system services and daemons. In other words, the init daemon is the parent of all processes on the system.
    Systemd --> Systemd (system daemon) is an init daemon used by modern systems and starts system services in parallel which remove unnecessary delays and speeds
    up the initialization process.
    Init and Systemd are both init daemons but it is better to use the latter since it is commonly used in recent Linux Distros. Init uses service whereas 
    Systemd uses systemctl to manage Linux services.

 Q.How to identify which type of file is this?
    ls -lah
   
 Q. Why lib,lib64 is in a different color?
     Files that can be used for various functions
     change in color may depends upon link, directory, image etc. 
     
  Q. What things does kernel manage?
     1. Kernel takes care of how much memory is used to store, where you store.
     2. It determines which processes use the CPU, for how much time, and for what purpose.
     3. It acts as an interpreter between the hardware and processes.
  
  Q. Explain the output of the “ls-l” command?
      It shows all the lists and information about all the files and directories within the system.
  
  Q. How to create multiple files with a single command?
       Using TOUCH command
 
 Q   How to delete files in vim editor?
         :!rm filename
          Then in terminal
          Shift+zz
 
 Q What are hidden files?
      All the files that start with (.) are hidden files   
      
  Q. What is Firewall?
     A firewall is a security device in the form of computer hardware or software. 
     It can help protect your network by acting as an intermediary between your internal network and outside traffic. 
     It monitors attempts to gain access to your operating system and blocks unwanted incoming traffic and unrecognized sources
     
  Q. How does it do this(Firewall)?
     A firewall acts as a barrier or filter between your computer and another network such as the internet. 
     You could think of a firewall as a traffic controller. It helps to protect your network and information by managing your network traffic. 
     This includes blocking unsolicited incoming network traffic and validating access by assessing network traffic for anything malicious like hackers and 
     malware.
     
  Q. How does a firewall work?
     To start, a firewalled system analyzes network traffic based on rules.
     A firewall only welcomes those incoming connections that it has been configured to accept. 
     It does this by allowing or blocking specific data packets — units of communication you send over digital networks — based on pre-established security rules.
     A firewall works like a traffic guard at your computer’s entry point, or port. Only trusted sources, or IP addresses, are allowed in. 
     IP addresses are important because they identify a computer or source, just like your postal address identifies where you live.
    
  Q. Why do we need firewalls?
     You might already engage in certain safe computer and internet use practices, including these:
     You don’t click on unknown links or attachments.
     You only log on to trustworthy, known websites.
     You never give out any personal information unless it is absolutely necessary.
     You have strong, unique, complex passwords for each online account that you update often.
     
 Q.  What does a firewall protect against?
     A firewall can help protect your computer and data by managing your network traffic. 
     It does this by blocking unsolicited and unwanted incoming network traffic. 
     A firewall validates access by assessing this incoming traffic for anything malicious like hackers and malware that could infect your computer.
 
 Q.  What is use of iptables in Linux?
     iptables is a user-space utility program that allows a system administrator to configure the IP packet filter rules of the Linux kernel firewall, implemented as different Netfilter modules. 
     The filters are organized in different tables, which contain chains of rules for how to treat network traffic packets.
 
 Q.  What is chain in iptables?
     The filter table in iptables has three chains (sets of rules). The INPUT chain is used for any packet coming into the system. 
     The OUTPUT chain is for any packet leaving the system. And the FORWARD chain is for packets that are forwarded (routed) through the system.
  
 Q.  apt vs apt-get?
     The apt update command not just update the repository index but also tells if and how many new versions of the software are available in the repository.
     Let us see some more apt commands which replaced the apt-get. To view these commands, you can type apt help or visit the apt man page by typing apt 
     man in the Terminal. It will display all the information related to apt

 Q.  apt upgrade vs apt update?
     apt upgrade--updates all the packages presently installed in our Linux system to their latest versions.
     apt update--command is we are asking our Linux machine to go browse these lists and copy the latest version of them and put them in your local machine.
     
 Q.  what is package manager?
     a package manager is a tool that allows users to install, remove, upgrade, configure and manage software packages on an operating system.
     The package manager can be a graphical application like a software center or a command line tool like apt-get
     
 Q.  low level vs high level package manager?
     High-level package managers download packages figure out the dependencies for you, and deal with groups of packages. 
     Low-level managers unpack individual packages run scripts, and get the software installed correctly.
     
 Q.  iptable vs ufw ?
     Iptables is a kernel level ip filtering mechanism. It does allow you to make routing decisions and so on on IP packets.
     UFW is a simplified firewall mechanism that is implemented on top of iptables. UFW is not as flexible but is easier to configure for common scenarios.
     UFW provides a basic default firewall and allows you to easily turn on and off basic services. 
     To use IPtables you need to understand TCP/IP connections, more complicated protocols (e.g. NFS) and it can still be complicated.
 
 Q.  apt-get vs dpkg?
      DPKG->the dpkg just install the .deb file, but will not install its dependencies because it doesn't have those files and it does not have access to 
      repositories to go pull the dependencies from.
      apt-get->It is a Package Management System. So, it handles the installation of Debian packages on Debian-based Linux distributions.
      A Package Management System is a set of tools that will help us install, remove, and change packages easily.
      apt-get will look for the dependencies and install them.

 Q.  what is SSH?
     SSH stands for "Secure Shell." The SSH protocol was designed as a secure alternative to unsecured remote shell protocols. 
     It utilizes a client-server paradigm, in which clients and servers communicate via a secure channel.

 Q. And SSH uses?
    SSH is widely used in data centers to provide secure management, remote access to resources, software patches, and updates. 
    The protocol also enables protected router management, server hardware maintenance, and virtualization platform administration.
    
 Q. What is .pemfiles?
    pem file format is mostly used to store cryptographic keys. This file can be used for different purposes. 
    The . pem file defines the structure and encoding file type that is used to store the data. 
    The pem file contains the standard dictated format to start and end a file.

 Q. what is sshd in linux?
    sshd is the OpenSSH server process. It listens to incoming connections using the SSH protocol and acts as the server for the protocol. 
    It handles user authentication, encryption, terminal connections, file transfers, and tunneling.

 Q. sshd vs ssh?
    The main difference is that sshd is a server (like a web server serving https) and SSH is a client.
    and the server provide its own public key which can be fingerprinted, checked and remembered to by the client in order to prevent MITM attacks
    
 Q. Why SSH is used in Linux?
    The ssh command provides a secure encrypted connection between two hosts over an insecure network. This connection can also be used for terminal access,
    file transfers, and for tunneling other applications
     
 Q. What is SCP?
    Secure Copy or SCP is a means of securley transferring files between two machines on a network. SCP uses SSH for improved security and 
    will prompt you if it needs a password or passphrase for authentication.
    
 Q. What is keys?
    keys is use to access the server.
    
 Q. how to create own key pair?
    1. ssh-keygen
    2. ssh-keygen -t rsa -b 4096
 
 
 
 
